py sol for hps (#4910)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/gold/usaco-694.mdx

}
```
</JavaSection>
<PySection>

<Warning>

Due to Python's constant factor, the below solution TLEs on a couple test cases.

</Warning>

```py

> MX = 10**5 + 5

Reviewer: just use MAX_{VALUE/N/ETC.}, why shorten?

Author: done

> dp = [[[0] * 3 for _ in range(25)] for _ in range(MX)]

Reviewer: why can't you declare after input & define with variable sizes?

Author: done

A = [0] * MX

with open("hps.in") as read:
	n, k = map(int, read.readline().strip().split())

	for i in range(n):
		a = read.readline().strip()
		if a == "H":
			A[i] = 0
		elif a == "P":
			A[i] = 1
		else:
			A[i] = 2

# either she switches to h or p or s or stays
for i in range(n):
	for j in range(k + 1):
		for l in range(3):
			if l == A[i]:
				dp[i][j][l] += 1

> 			# switch to not item

Reviewer: could you name the items? (hoof, paper, scissors)

Author: tell me if the current one is right.

}
```
</JavaSection>
<PySection>

<Warning>

Due to Python's constant factor, the below solution TLEs on a couple test cases.

</Warning>

```py
with open("hps.in") as read:
	n, k = map(int, read.readline().strip().split())
	A = [0] * n
	for i in range(n):
		a = read.readline().strip()
		if a == "H":
			A[i] = 0
		elif a == "P":
			A[i] = 1
		else:
			A[i] = 2

"""
dp[i][j][k] is the largest number of games she wins at
games i with switches j with current item k
0 == H 1 == P 2 == S
"""

> dp = [[[0] * 3 for _ in range(k + 2)] for _ in range(n + 1)]

Reviewer 2: k+2? i've seen +1 in dp arrays but never +2

Author: Yes, since I am avoiding the magic numbers from the cpp version and since seeing the loops it is what is required.

Reviewer 2: i mean it seems this +2 could be avoided by doing some rudimentary bounds checking

}
```
</JavaSection>
<PySection>

<Warning>

Due to Python's constant factor, the below solution TLEs on a couple test cases.

</Warning>

```py
with open("hps.in") as read:
	n, k = map(int, read.readline().strip().split())
	A = [0] * n
	for i in range(n):
		a = read.readline().strip()
		if a == "H":
			A[i] = 0
		elif a == "P":
			A[i] = 1
		else:
			A[i] = 2

> """
> dp[i][j][k] is the largest number of games she wins at
> games i with switches j with current item k
> 0 == H 1 == P 2 == S
> """

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"""
dp[i][j][k] is the maximum number of games she wins at
the ith game after j switches with current item k
0 == H 1 == P 2 == S
"""
```

dp = [[[0] * 3 for _ in range(k + 1)] for _ in range(n + 1)]

# either she switches to hoof or paper or scissors or stays
for i in range(n):
	for j in range(k + 1):
		for l in range(3):
			if l == A[i]:
				dp[i][j][l] += 1

			if j != k:

> 				# switch to not hoof

Reviewer: what does not mean

Author: `not` is not required.

Reviewer 2: what does that mean

Author: Just some changes to the previous comments

}
```
</JavaSection>
<PySection>

<Warning>

Due to Python's constant factor, the below solution TLEs on a couple test cases.

</Warning>

```py
with open("hps.in") as read:
	n, k = map(int, read.readline().strip().split())

> 	A = [0] * n

Reviewer 2: rename to `moves`

Author: I changed the one in c++ also

	for i in range(n):
		a = read.readline().strip()
		if a == "H":
			A[i] = 0
		elif a == "P":
			A[i] = 1
		else:
			A[i] = 2

"""
dp[i][j][k] is the maximum number of games she wins at
the ith game after j switches with current item k

> 0 == H 1 == P 2 == S

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
H = 0, P = 1, S = 2
